Release notes for XTC 113 (#317)
Xceptance/xlt-documentation: content/en/xtc/xtc-release-notes/v113.md

| `com.xceptance.xlt.agentcontroller.privateMachine.name` | _(auto-generated)_ | An optional human-readable name for this private machine as it appears in XTC. |
| `com.xceptance.xlt.agentcontroller.privateMachine.type` | `MEDIUM` | The capacity class of this machine. One of: `TINY`, `SMALL`, `MEDIUM`, `LARGE`. Make sure the specified type reflects the machine's actual hardware resources. |
| `com.xceptance.xlt.agentcontroller.privateMachine.xtc.clientId` | — | The client ID of the API credentials created in Step 1. |
| `com.xceptance.xlt.agentcontroller.privateMachine.xtc.clientSecret` | — | The client secret of the API credentials created in Step 1. |
| `com.xceptance.xlt.agentcontroller.privateMachine.xtc.org` | — | The short name of your XTC organization. |
| `com.xceptance.xlt.agentcontroller.privateMachine.xtc.project` | — | The short name of your XTC load testing project. |

Once configured, start the XLT agent controller on each private machine. The agent controller will immediately register itself with XTC. Verify that all machines appear on the *Private Machines* page of your project.

#### Using Private Machines in Load Tests

> To use private machines in a load test, specify the desired machine type and the required number of machines in the new *Private Machines* section on the *Machines* tab of the load test. The machines do not need to be online at the time of configuration. In addition, make sure to enter the agent controller password configured above in the *Common Machine Configuration* section.

Reviewer: We'll probably have to mention the fact that machines of size `X` cannot be used for load tests configured to use primate machines of size `Y` where `Y < X` despite users' expectations .

```suggestion
To use private machines in a load test, specify the desired machine type (must exactly match the type as configured in XLT) and the required number of machines in the new *Private Machines* section on the *Machines* tab of the load test. The machines do not need to be online at the time of configuration. In addition, make sure to enter the agent controller password configured above in the *Common Machine Configuration* section.
```

> When the load test is started, XTC searches for the requested number of available private machines of the specified type and reserves them for the duration of the test. If not enough private machines of that type are registered and available, the test will not start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the load test is started, XTC searches for the requested number of available private machines of the specified type (exact match) and reserves them for the duration of the test. If not enough private machines of that type are registered and available, the test will not start.
```

Once the load test completes, XTC releases the reserved private machines, making them available for other load tests. The overall load test lifecycle — including building the test suite, running scenarios, downloading results, and generating reports — is identical to that of regular public machine tests.

### Available XLT Execution Environments

* XLT 9.x → [9.2.2]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_2_x" >}}) (recommended)
* XLT 10.x → [10.0.0-beta-2]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/10_0_x" >}})

## Monitoring

### Warning for Inactive Notification Lists

When the last activation time of a notification list is removed, the list becomes effectively inactive. XTC now displays a warning to make this clear.

## General

### Member Table Shows Name and Email in Separate Columns

> In an organization or project, the table on the *Users* tab of the *Members* page now shows the name and email of each user in separate columns, making it possible to sort the list by either value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an organization or project, the table on the *Users* tab of the *Members* page now shows the name and email of each user in separate columns, allowing you to sort the list by either value.
```
